cloud data import: update data import docs as per new UI (#10265)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/migrate-from-aurora-bulk-import.md

This document describes how to migrate data from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB Cloud in bulk using the import tools on TiDB Cloud console.

## Learn how to create an import task on the TiDB Cloud console

To import data, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the **Clusters** page.

2. Locate your target cluster, click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**. The **Data Import** page is displayed.

3. Prepare source data according to [Learn how to create an Amazon S3 Bucket and prepare source data files](#learn-how-to-create-an-amazon-s3-bucket-and-prepare-source-data-files). You can see the advantages and disadvantages of different **Data Format** in the preparing data part.

4. Select or fill in the **Data Format**, **Location**, **Bucket URL**, and **Role-ARN** fields according to the specification of your source data. For more information about how to create the bucket policy and role for cross-account access, see [Learn how to configure cross-account access](#learn-how-to-configure-cross-account-access).

5. Check the cluster name and the region name in the **Target Cluster**. Click **Next**.

>     TiDB Cloud starts validating whether it can access your data in the specified bucket URL. If you get the `AccessDenied` error, see [Troubleshoot Access Denied Errors during Data Import from S3](/tidb-cloud/troubleshoot-import-access-denied-error.md).

Author: ```suggestion
    TiDB Cloud starts validating whether it can access your data in the specified bucket URL. After validation, TiDB Cloud tries to scan all the files in the data source using the default file naming pattern, and returns a scan summary result on the left side of the next page. If you get the `AccessDenied` error, see [Troubleshoot Access Denied Errors during Data Import from S3](/tidb-cloud/troubleshoot-import-access-denied-error.md).
```

6. Add the table filter rules if needed. Click **Next**.

>     - **Table Filter**: If you want to filter which tables to be imported, you can specify one or more table filters in this field, separated by `,`.

Author: ```suggestion
    - **Table Filter**: If you want to filter which tables to be imported, you can specify table filter rules in this field.
```

>     - **Table Filter**: if you want to filter which tables to be imported, you can specify table filter rules in this field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Table Filter**: if you want to filter which tables to be imported, you can specify table filter rules in this area.
```

        For example:

        - `db01.*`: all tables in the `db01` database will be imported.

>         - `db01.table01*,db01.table02*`: all tables starting with `table01` and `table02` in the `db01` database will be imported.

Reviewer: ditto

>         - `db01.table01*,db01.table02*`: all tables starting with `table01` and `table02` in the `db01` database will be imported.

Author: ```suggestion
```

>         For example:
> 
>         - `db01.*`: all tables in the `db01` database will be imported.
>         - `db01.table01*,db01.table02*`: all tables starting with `table01` and `table02` in the `db01` database will be imported.
>         - `!db02.*`: except the tables in the `db02` database, all other tables will be imported. `!` is used to exclude tables that do not need to be imported.
>         - `*.*` : all tables will be imported.
> 
>         For more information, see [table filter snytax](/table-filter.md#syntax).

Author: ```suggestion 
```

>         For more information, see [table filter snytax](/table-filter.md#syntax).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        For more information, see [table filter syntax](/table-filter.md#syntax).
```

## Learn how to create an import task on the TiDB Cloud console

To import data, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the **Clusters** page.

2. Locate your target cluster, and click **Import Data** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area. The **Data Import** page is displayed.

    > **Tip:**
    >
    > Alternatively, you can also click the name of your target cluster on the **Clusters** page and click **Import Data** in the upper-right corner.

3. Prepare source data according to [Learn how to create an Amazon S3 Bucket and prepare source data files](#learn-how-to-create-an-amazon-s3-bucket-and-prepare-source-data-files). You can see the advantages and disadvantages of different **Data Format** in the preparing data part.

4. Select or fill in the **Data Format**, **Location**, **Bucket URL**, and **Role-ARN** fields according to the specification of your source data. For more information about how to create the bucket policy and role for cross-account access, see[Learn how to configure cross-account access](#learn-how-to-configure-cross-account-access).

5. Fill in the **Username** and **Password** fields of the **Target Cluster**.

> 6. Modify the file patterns and add the table filter rules if needed. Click **Next**.

Reviewer: Not sure if we need to provide more detailed instructions about file patterns and table filter rules here.

Author: OK added more details here.

# Migrate from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB Cloud in Bulk

This document describes how to migrate data from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB Cloud in bulk using the import tools on TiDB Cloud console.

## Learn how to create an import task on the TiDB Cloud console

To import data, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the **Clusters** page.

> 2. Locate your target cluster, click **Import Data** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area. The **Data Import** page is displayed..

Author: ```suggestion
2. Locate your target cluster, click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**. The **Data Import** page is displayed.
```

> 2. Locate your target cluster, click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**. The **Data Import** page is displayed.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Locate your target cluster, click **Import Data** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area. The **Data Import** page is displayed..
```

> 2. Locate your target cluster, click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**. The **Data Import** page is displayed.

Reviewer: In the current environment, after clicking the cluster name to go to the cluster details page, "import data" is not listed in ...

Author: It describes the Clusters page, not the specific cluster overview page.

5. Check the cluster name and the region name in the **Target Cluster**. Click **Next**.

    TiDB Cloud starts validating whether it can access your data in the specified bucket URL. If you get the `AccessDenied` error, see [Troubleshoot Access Denied Errors during Data Import from S3](/tidb-cloud/troubleshoot-import-access-denied-error.md).

6. Add the table filter rules if needed. Click **Next**.

    - **Table Filter**: If you want to filter which tables to be imported, you can specify one or more table filters in this field, separated by `,`.

        For example:

        - `db01.*`: all tables in the `db01` database will be imported.
        - `db01.table01*,db01.table02*`: all tables starting with `table01` and `table02` in the `db01` database will be imported.
        - `!db02.*`: except the tables in the `db02` database, all other tables will be imported. `!` is used to exclude tables that do not need to be imported.
        - `*.*` : all tables will be imported.

        For more information, see [table filter snytax](/table-filter.md#syntax).

7. On the **Preview** page, confirm the data to be imported and then click **Start Import**.

> **Note:**
>

> > - If your task fails, refer to [Learn how to clean up incomplete data](#learn-how-to-clean-up-incomplete-data).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If your task fails, refer to [Learn how to clean up incomplete data](#learn-how-to-clean-up-incomplete-data).
```

# Migrate from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB Cloud in Bulk

This document describes how to migrate data from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB Cloud in bulk using the import tools on TiDB Cloud console.

## Learn how to create an import task on the TiDB Cloud console

To import data, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the **Clusters** page.

2. Locate your target cluster, click **...** in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**. The **Data Import** page is displayed.

3. Prepare source data according to [Learn how to create an Amazon S3 Bucket and prepare source data files](#learn-how-to-create-an-amazon-s3-bucket-and-prepare-source-data-files). You can see the advantages and disadvantages of different **Data Format** in the preparing data part.

4. Select or fill in the **Data Format**, **Location**, **Bucket URL**, and **Role-ARN** fields according to the specification of your source data. For more information about how to create the bucket policy and role for cross-account access, see[Learn how to configure cross-account access](#learn-how-to-configure-cross-account-access).

> 5. Fill in the **Username** and **Password** fields of the **Target Cluster**.

Reviewer: ditto

> 5. Fill in the **Username** and **Password** fields of the **Target Cluster**.

Author: ```suggestion
5. Check the cluster name and the region name in the **Target Cluster**.
```

> 5. Check the cluster name and the region name in the **Target Cluster**.

Author: ```suggestion
5. Check the cluster name and the region name in the **Target Cluster**. Click **Next**. 
    
    TiDB Cloud starts validating whether it can access your data in the specified bucket URL. After the validation is completed and successful, the import task starts automatically. 
```

6. Modify the file patterns and add the table filter rules if needed. Click **Next**.

    - **File Pattern**: modify the file pattern if you want to import files whose filenames match a certain pattern to a single target table.

        > **Note:**
        >
        > When you use this feature, one import task can only import data to a single table at a time. If you want to use this feature to import data into different tables, you need to import several times, each time specifying a different target table.

        To modify the file pattern, specify a custom mapping rule between CSV files and a single target table in the following fields:

>         - **File name**: enter a pattern that matches the names of the files to be imported. If you have one file only, enter the file name here directly.

Author: ```suggestion
        - **Source file name**: enter a pattern that matches the names of the files to be imported. If you have one file only, enter the file name here directly.
```

            For example:

>             - `my-data?.sql`: all CSV files starting with `my-data` and one character (such as `my-data1.sql` and `my-data2.sql`) will be imported into the same target table.

Reviewer: Please check if "CSV files" needs to be updated. According to [Migrate from Amazon Aurora MySQL to TiDB Cloud in Bulk | PingCAP Docs](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/migrate-from-aurora-bulk-import#option-2-prepare-source-data-files-using-amazon-aurora-snapshots), the formats could be Dumpling or Aurora Snapshot.

>             - `my-data*.sql`: all CSV files starting with `my-data` will be imported into the same target table.

Reviewer: ditto

>         - **Target table**: enter the name of the target table in TiDB Cloud, which must be in the `${db_name}.${table_name}` format. For example, `mydb.mytable`. Note that this field only accepts one specific table name, so wildcards are not supported.

Author: ```suggestion
        - **Target table name**: enter the name of the target table in TiDB Cloud, which must be in the `${db_name}.${table_name}` format. For example, `mydb.mytable`. Note that this field only accepts one specific table name, so wildcards are not supported.
```

    - **Table Filter**: If you want to filter which tables to be imported, you can specify one or more table filters in this field, separated by `,`.

        For example:

        - `db01.*`: all tables in the `db01` database will be imported.
        - `db01.table01*,db01.table02*`: all tables starting with `table01` and `table02` in the `db01` database will be imported.
        - `!db02.*`: except the tables in the `db02` database, all other tables will be imported. `!` is used to exclude tables that do not need to be imported.
        - `*.*` : all tables will be imported.

        For more information, see [table filter snytax](/table-filter.md#syntax).

> 7. On the **Preview** page, confirm the import data and then click **Start Import**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. On the **Preview** page, confirm the data to be imported and then click **Start Import**.
```

> TiDB Cloud starts validating whether it can access your data in the specified bucket URL. After the validation is completed and successful, the import task starts automatically. When the data import progress shows **Completed**, you have successfully imported the data to your database in TiDB Cloud.

Reviewer 2: The paragraph is  used in the old import console. In the new import console ,the validation is after step 1 not step 3

Author: OK deleted this sentence: After the validation is completed and successful, the import task starts automatically.

> **Note:**
>

> > - If you get the `AccessDenied` error, see [Troubleshoot Access Denied Errors during Data Import from S3](/tidb-cloud/troubleshoot-import-access-denied-error.md).

Reviewer: ditto

> > - If you get the `AccessDenied` error, see [Troubleshoot Access Denied Errors during Data Import from S3](/tidb-cloud/troubleshoot-import-access-denied-error.md).

Author: ```suggestion
```
